But anyway, so here I am. I'm with Mike Edwards. Uh,
we show up at the airport in St. Louis. The first time we're gonna meet,
we meet each other. We hit it off right away. I don't have my driver's license.
Uh, I had some, what form ID? I don't know, want a form ID. I had,
I had some other form ID and Mike, uh, he had his, and he could drive.
He just got his at the time. So I wonder if I used my password. It, I dunno.
Anyway, the, this whole.
Thing, you do this, this fast talking thing,
this is part of the sh and jive though.
This is a little bit of part of the thing. No, this is me, but I understand.
But it, it also is very effective. That's what a shuck and jive artist does.
They talk very fast and they never pause.
So you never get a chance to interject. Yeah. And they're constantly going.
So if they're reading your or T saying something, you have to keep up with them.
And part of the keeping up with them is you get a little bewildered. Yeah.
And then bewildered, you forget what you've said or they've said, and you're,
you're trying to sort of keep pace with them and you can,
and next thing you know, they're like, oh my God,
I can't believe you know that how'd you figure that out. Well,
we'll get to that later. And then you keep going and you keep, that is part of.
The team aspect of it. Yeah. It's not what I'm doing. Right. Now's because.
Like, kuocs are Chavez when he was fighting, you would put a pace on you.
You couldn't keep up with. Right. Right.
Yeah. So you always analyze it with fighting, which is great. Yeah. Yeah.
It it's kind a thing it's vulnerabilities.
Yeah. Yeah. Exploit vulnerabilities in the human mind.
And one of 'em is that you talk and think faster than most people.
So most people, we, when you're talking, they, they don't have it like, right.
You just did right there. You, you wanna, because I had can get a chance.
Tonterject cause I'm not gonna let you, cause I'm gonna keep talking.
And as I keep talking, I talk quicker. You get bewildered.
That's one of the things that you do to people, whether you realize it or not,
you do it because you've done it that way for a long time.
It's probably when it's become a pattern. Yeah.
It's become a pattern to make the other person feel insecure. So you don't,
so you take.
Know what's a patent for it's a patent. For me,
being able to think and not forget things, as I'mm saying them, like,
because like, as you but's so effective though,
as you said that there's another thing that popped in my I've gotta like all day
long, I have songs in my head. It doesn't stop. Like I,
I do this with my teeth all the time, playing the song, too music in my head.
Like constantly, if I'm not thinking about anything else,
I have songs in my head constantly. And I've even,
I went to the dentist and I said, Hey, you know,
I've got this thing with my teeth and I'm tapping my teeth.
I'm wearing 'em down, you know, what's going on? And he says, oh,
musicians do that all the time. And I go, well,
I always have music 24 hours a day in my head. So, wow.
But now I've gone off somewhere and there was, oh, handwriting.
So if you look at my hand, look my hand, how bad my handwriting, like,
it's really hard to fricking read. Right?
It's not that bad. Somebody just wrote me a letter the other day.
Well that's and I read the letter, somebody, a friend of mine sent me something.
He wrote me a letter and I read his letter. I was like, well, what the is that?
Cause it's just scribibble well, that's me. Right? You.
Want someone to read it? It is me writing. Neat. That' slow. That's not bad.
Slow. Normally when I write, I can't read it myself, I' be a, and I look, well,
that's the thing, what you just said, you, my, you, you,
you're trying to keep up with your thoughts. Yeah.
And that's one of the things about bad handwriting.
They say that you're trying to keep up with what you're thinking. Oh,
living and my brain. That makes sense, doctor, its always going a mile a minute.
Right. It's going thousand different ways.
And I think it's part of my problem solving is like when people give me ideas
that they want, okay, this is what I'd like to do as a magic effect.
How do I do it? I'm able to rattle off like 10, 15 different ways of it's.
So of doing.
It effective, like as a mentalist. That way that,
that pattern of talking is so bewildering to people that they just sort of like,
huh? What, what, uh, and you've got 'em on the ropes. Always.
It is that thing of, even in my state show. Um,
and you'll have to come to the state show sometime. I' love, you know, I.
Would love you to come see, see a, well, I saw the mini version of it.
When you did the television show, I was blown.
Away. I mean, the first thing I do is I come out before.
I don't even introduce myself. Where do you do it? So.
If people can, they wanna see you. I, I was.
Just at planet Hollywood filling in, in Vegas. Yeah. I've got a, uh,
a thing coming up, uh, at RO Rochester fringe festival, Rochester, New York.
I I'm, I'm at a lot of different college. You can go to my website,
mana check.com and look up the dates. But the Rochester is gonna be, uh,
on the 13th, 7:00 PM, 14th, 5:00 PM. Then I'm on the 20th at 9:00 PM.
The 22nd. I can remember this 3:00 PM. I know. So you can find,
you can find it on the <laugh> you can't even help yourself.
You can find it. You.
Can find it on the, you can find it on the website. So it is on the website.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay. But you're in Vegas all the time. Right? I'm.
In Vegas a lot. I go't work Vegas that much. Um, oh really? I'm busy now really?
Until, um, beginning of November, I'm gonna be like different places,
just touring on the roading, different places.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> some of it's corporate, some of it's college, you know,
it's a mixture of a mismatch of different different things. So, so go back.
To this whole James Randy Yuri geler.
So here I am with, uh, Mike Edwards at the airport,
and-hmm <affirmative> we'rehitting it off and everything. Uh, Peter,
Phillip shows up and he's the professor that I mentioned a minute ago,
who's gonna be doing the investigating of us. Um,
and he has this wristband on and I'm all always asking questions.
What's this what's that. And I'm always noticing things.
And he said it was a wristband that he got from a witch doctor in Africa that
helps protect him. Ah,
so I'm starting to think this might be a little easier than I thought it was
gonna be<laugh> but HES going in, I was like,
I didn't know these guys skeptical. Are they gonna use one way mirrors?
Are they gonna be trying to trick us, catch us? I had no clue.
So we get into, uh, we, we, I,
we had Peter Phillips' car because Mike was too young to drive a rental.
Peter Phillips has a rental HES in front of us. So we're following him.
And this is, this is how it all starts. Really.
I I'm sitting there and just kinda like me talking all the time,
I'm looking around, I'm always doing something. I'm always noticing something.
I look in the back seat and I notice says a briefcase.
I reach in the back and I kind of pull it under the dash. It's locked.
And to me like if somebody locks something,
it means they don't want you inside there. Of course. Right.
But why doesn't want is in there? Oh,
briefcase E easily can just open the locks. So I pick the locks,
open it up inside. There's a whole bunch of silverware. So either this guy's,
alept a maniac or this is a silverware he's gonna be using for the,
so I start bending it all up, lock the briefcase, put it in the back,
sit there for about two more minutes, open up the glove compartment.
There's some extra keys and things in the glove compartment.
I start bending those up.
You bent his keys. I have.
Well, I'm a psychic, right? This stuff, this happens. Like, yeah.
What if he need those keys and get in his house? Yeah.
But I needed him to be convinced I was genuine. I get all right.
So I end up looking over the car keys that are hanging out the keys that are
hanging out on the car, key out of the ignition.
I start to reach over to get them. And Mike just looks at me and says,
I think you've done enough stop. You know, so, but there's,
there's this really interesting phenomena. Right?
We knew that in the laboratory,
everything we did at that point was gonna be on a micro level.
It was gonna be very small because it had to be because we couldn't make it look
like it's a trick. We, it had to look like minute. Right. And,
and not just that, we didn't know if they were gonna be watching as,
like I said, through one-way mirrors and things like that.
So there's a interesting phenomena at the time it was called spontaneous PK.
And that is stuff that just happens.
PK P psychokinessis PK short for psychokinessis.
Uh telekinessis psychokinessis the whole thing. They're all the same thing. Um,
so there's,
these things just supposedly happen around these psychics that can bend metal
mm-hmm <affirmative> stuff, moves, stuff breaks, right? That,
so those things were the things that would convince him and keep him holding on.
Even if we did a big band out of the laboratory, but not on camera.
That's the thing that would keep him going. I want to get that on film.
I definitely want to get that on film.
I'm gonna document that someday that's gonna happen in the laboratory.
When we ended up getting to, to the laboratory,
all the students at the university were extremely skeptical, very,
very skeptical, but they had heard about the spontaneous PK.
So they hid things underneath the video recorders in a,
there was a separate room and they hid all kinds of things everywhere around.
I noticed there was stuff hidden. I mean,
why is a recorder hidden under that VCR? You know,
why is there a four hidden behind that co you know, it doesn't belong there.
So I started bend up all those things on lunchtime <laugh> and that convinced
all the students that we were genuine as well. Oh, Christ. So this, this,
I mean, this, this, this whole thing went on and on it, it it's as simple as,
so what happened was immediately,
Randy sent them a list of 13 caveat of things that we,
that they shouldn't do. And it was common sense stuff, right?
It was stuff like don't let the subjects work at the same time,
because they could distract you.
Don't let them work with more than one object at a time,
because they could confuse you with those objects as to which ones you're
bending. And there was this whole list of different things.
They showed the list to me and Mike and had a good laugh about it and said,
this would make you guys so uncomfortable.
We want you to be comfortable where in reality,
they should have followed that list because mm-hmm <affirmative> oh,
one of the things Randy said was mark everything on a micro micro and a macro
level. So they, the subjects can see the macro mark,
but won't realize as a Micromark on there as well,
which would've helped big their idea of doing a macro mark was on
every fork. They took the forkle spoon.
They measured it at both ends like the height from the table.
And they measured the middle of the fork from the height, from the table.
Then they put a label on it on a little string with a number on it.
And that was their idea of keeping track of if something had bent or not,
because they would measure it after we concentrated on it and they would then
remeasure it again afterwards. And they would say, oh, okay, this is, uh,
this is bent a millimeter or two millimeters mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So we would do things like we would say this tags in my way. Can I take it off?
Yeah, you can take it off. We put it down, concentrate on it.
Didn't do anything. Put it down on the table, pick up another fork or a spoon.
Say, do you mind if I remove this tag, take it off, put it down,
concentrate on it. Nothing happens.
Switch the tags around on the one that was on the first one to the second one,
the second one to the first one, and then put the two forks off to the side.
Then wait two, three hours later, pick up one of those forks.
Obviously not doing anything with it, concentrating on it. Say,
why don't you measure it? And they would measure it.
And the measurements had now changed.
Not realizing because they never measured the other one again,
because they remeasd everything consistently later on and put new tags on 'em
every single time,
not realizing that we just simply switched forks or as we reached across the
table, we would lean on one of the forks and then hours again,
later we would pretend like we actually bent that fork. So this went on. I mean,
it went on for 180 hours over four years. I mean,
we messed with these people bad.
We did probably some things at the time that were probably illegal as well.
Like what, like leaving the window unlocked at the laboratory,
going off to the club, across the, the state line coming back,
like about four or five o'clock in the morning, breaking into the building and,
uh, bending up every single piece of metal that was in the laboratory. Um.
They had a, what kind of scientists were running this?
Well, this is back in the eighties, so right. And they, they had,
they actually had this aquarium back.
In the eighties. Scientists were like, these TV shows. They.
Really, no it's it's, it's true. Here's a sad thing. Right?
I went into this thinking, these people were gonna be the enemy.
It was me against them. You know, I had to do this. Turns out.
These are just really, really nice,
nice people that are very naive when it comes to what psychic phenomena is.
Right.
Well, if you're a scientist,
most likely you're not studying a whole lot of liars and mentalists and
magicians and psychic phenomenon.
And you really are probably trying to find out whether or not it's real.
And maybe you believe a little bit too much. Yeah.
You Don don't know enough yet when it came.
To this type of phenomena. Absolutely. But you Gallo was already doing that.
Other psychics were already doing it in other kind ountries and they were being
invalidated as a genuine thing in other countries. Yeah.
We knew like RO over in France, Tanzania, Steven north, over in England,
you know,
there was a lot of research going on in England at the time on this type of
phenomenon as well. It was a really big thing.
Back then. And it was just people hoing people. It.
Was little kids. Like the here's the weird thing. Right? So over in England,
there were, um, I can't think of what the guy's name is now. Uh,
there was a scientist over there,
a parapsychologist who was working with little kids and his thinking is that
kids don't lie. Little kids don't lie. That's all they do is lie.
They get to that point where they learn how to lie to get anything and
everything. So these kids.
Don't lie. That's someone without kids.
And these kids only got caught.
The only reason they got caught was by accident because they were,
the video cameras were left on and soon as the parapsychologists left the room,
the kids were taking forks and spoons and actually bending them underneath their
feet and then putting them back up on the, on the table. So,
and they would come in. It was, they literally.
Scientists went in with the premise that children don't lie.
That is one of the dumbest things I've ever heard in my life. I don't.
Disagree with you,
but this is how badly people wanted to believe in this phenomena. Why do,
why do.
People wanna believe in hidden powers?
I think it's white. People wanna believe in most things, right? Wanna,
we wanna find, we wanna believe there's something more than just us like that.
For most people, we're just, we're not enough.
And I don't know if it's because we get so bored with our lives.
We get depressed with our lives. We get, you know,
we we're in this everyday thing of going to work, coming home.
And is this all there is, is this it? You know,
is there something else that that's a superpower that I could,
I could actually have? Is there something I can discover? That's bigger than me,
better than me. You know, it is a,
ununiverse much bigger than just this planet right here. Right. So, I mean,
if you asked me, I would think that if you, if UFOs were coming here,
if they were coming here, let's say, I don't believe they were,
but if they were coming here, you don't believe they were. No, I don't. I don't.
But I think if they were, I just don't, I, I, I don't, I,
I think we would really have real evidence hundred percent evidence of it by
now, but here's the thing, right? Wouldn't it make much sense even like for us.
Okay. Let's say we start going, looking at other planets.
Are we gonna send other humans out there?
Or are we gonna go ahead and send robots or something like that? They can last,
like we do tomorrow. Yeah.
They can last and robots are getting better and better and better at.
So if there's an advanced civilization, civil,
surely they would also have right.
This advancement where they don't have to send themselves out,
they can send something to represent them. Right.
What the real hardcore believers believe those grays are. Yeah. Gray aliens,
the big black highs. They think there's some sort of a Android or something.
And, and it.
Could be, but I don't believe, I don't believe we've had 'em.
I, um, a lot more before I started doing that television show, right.
That television show cured me of Bigfoot cured. Me of psychics cured.
Me of aliens, cured me of like almost everything. Well.
This is a thing with me, right. When I was a young kid, I believe in that stuff.
You know, when I was a young kid, I spoke tongues, you know, I thought I did,
you know, did you really? Oh yeah, yeah. I had the whole experience. I mean,
it was like, you know, all the chemicals running through my body and me just,
you know, doing the whole thing, you know, and going to that.
And I realized later what was going on. But at the time I,
I was looking for answers. I was looking for answers in religion. Well, you had.
A very disturbed life and you were probably looking for some sort of security.
I got shut down every single time I would ask questions.
I was called a troublemaker.